# Capstone_project_MesMiner

The 2019 coronavirus pandemic outbreak has been an unprecedented health risk event caused by a severe acute respiratory syndrome. Global effort has been focused to finding a functional vaccine as well as novel treatment to reduce the severity of ICU patients. The scientific community has been researching insensitivity to understand the mechanism of COVID-19 with the immune response. By understanding COVID-19 better drug development and drug repurposing approaches could be performed rapidly and more efficiently. The major aim of this project is to develop a text mining platform from the abstracts of each papers published covering COVID-19 related research to create a database with all the novel biological outcomes. The focus is to identify and normalise gene and drug mentions from the paper abstracts. 

This would facilitate the transfer of the new dataset into current interactome databases with the aim to facilitate analysis and ease the finding of new potential interactions that are not currently been investigated. At this stage, only abstracts were analysed, future steps will include the analysis of the whole manuscript and to extract the quantitative data from each publication. Scispacy, an NLP library was used to identify biological terms, gene, drugs, and gene regulations. By combing this with molecular biology datasets a fine curated dataset with the most frequent gene and drugs mentioned in the COVID-19 dataset can be developed. This method combined with machine learning pipelines could represent a great tool to accelerate translational research.

